well let's take you to a live event
happening right now in rala Palestinian
NGS and professional unions are holding
a press conference on the catastrophic
situation in Gaza let's listen in is
nothing but ink on paper the
International
Community remains silent if not
accomplished to the crime being
perpetrated by the Israeli occupation
forces in Gaza Strip I hope you together
with with other representatives of the
media as well as the
ngos
[Music]
to together with our colleagues who will
join us on video from Gaza
Strip I hope we together will be able to
give this Gathering what it deserves and
expose these henus practice is by the
Israeli occupation
forces at the beginning we will be
joined by a video clip previously
recorded by amwa the head h of
humanitarian work in De B
good afternoon everyone I'm speaking to
you from inside D Al balah in Gaza
Strip good after everyone I'm speaking
to
from the city that is receiving a
massive influx of displaced
gasin the situation
is dire it is more than dire it is even
worse than it was at any given day in
the
past it is really
dire even more worse than yesterday I
made this
intensive ruthless bombardment by the
Israeli occupation forces targeting
every form of Life all across Gaza Strip
from
hospitals to
institutions to residential homes to
infrastructure in addition to
the total denial of humanitarian Aid
into Gaza Strip all these factors
together have contributed to the
exacerbation of the humanitarian
condition lack of Food
Supplies medical supplies thousands of
families in the central Gaza and Al
maasi area are left without any shelter
let alone Food Supplies the situation is
getting dire by the minute amid ruthless
meress bombardment by the Israeli war
planes all acts of genocide are being
perpetrated against Gaza whatever left
of food items is has run out people are
left without any water supply but the
underr water the situation is dire it is
grave speaking of the health condition
it is even
worse many hos are out of
operation the makeshift Hospital put up
but the red crescent is already out of
service it was stormed and destroyed by
the Israelis this
morning all the medical
units
and pharmaceutical and medical supplies
points clinics whatever put up by the
red Cresent
are already out of operation many
diseases and
endemic have Broken Out Among the
population
especially
children needless to say that the sewage
water has overflooded among and between
the
tents what is required now is to declare
Gaza Strip and as a famine striken area
a famine strien
Zone on the contrary to what is being
falsely reported that the situation is
getting
better it is not on the contrary it is
getting worse and worse it is
exaggerating mainly in central Gaza and
in the South we should act together to
bring this Israeli aggression to an end
to protect whoever left and whatever
left from Gaza and the
gazin bham
statement very important
statement an SOS message to
declare Gaza Strip a famine strien Zone
as the Israeli genocide War enters the
eth month the Palestinians namely the
gazans are reeling under
starvation lack of Food Supplies lack of
medical
supplies the spread of malnutrition
among children
dehydration and fatalities not only as
victims to bombardment but due to
starvation and outbreak of diseases L
alone the contamination and pollution
caused by the overflood of sewage
water many dead bodies are still trapped
underneath the
let alone many other dead bodies are
still strewn on the
roads the destruction of gas's
infrastructure the absence of fuel has
resulted in total sensation
of sewage Network system as a result the
sewage water has overflood without any
possibility to treat or dispose of this
water and with the rising temperature
outbreak of diseases and epidemic has
become a on the ground civil defense
teams all across Gaza Strip are being
targeted by the Israeli cupation forces
total Destruction of all its heavy
equipment as a result the civil defense
is no longer able to remove the debris
or recover the dead bodies buried
underneath according to the
international LA and human
rights
Charter famine cannot be used as a
weapon against civilian population
according to article 54 of the
additional protocol to Geneva Convention
forth Convention of
1977 that
property
infrastructure and basic necessities of
Civilian populations must be protected
it is prohibited to Target destroy or
hinder the transportation of medical
supplies or Food Supplies or to Target
Farmland livestock or their produce it
is also prohibited to T and or
destroy
networks an irrigation or water
system it is Israel's goal to starve the
population to force them out of Gaza
Strip according to article 14 of the
second additional protocol of the Fourth
Geneva Convention of
1977 that it is
prohibited to starve the Civil
population as an act of
aggression it is also prohibited to
Target or destroy
y or other basic necessities of life for
the survival of civil
population article six of the
international Criminal Court's Rome
statute that any
act committed with the intention to
Parish an ethnic
group National ethnic or religious
group will
insute be it part or whole will
be characterized as an act of
genocide article
11 stipulates that man has the right to
obtain sufficient quantities of food
necessary to their
survival States party to the convention
are required to take the necessary
measures to ensure humans basic right to
life namely food this includes the
temporary provisional
measures handed down by the
icj whereby the responsible
officials can be prosecuted and brought
to Justice including those who impair
the delivery of relief
Aid the practices
and policies imposed by the Israeli
occupation forces on the population of
Gaza
Strip can be
characterized and called for criminal
liability and we demand the immediate
cease of hostilities on critical
installation or Siege to deny the
delivery of relief AIDS
in a report issued in March n
2024 has come to the conclusion that
famine is imminent un unless the Israeli
hostilities are brought to an end and
the civilian population are granted full
access to food medicine and other basic
necessities that's why why it is
required to restore Health
Service
facilities clean water and sewage
installations including
electricity to the civilian population
since
March hostilities against the civilian
population by Israel continued despite
the fact that some humanitarian Aid was
delivered to the northern part of Gaza
Strip it is yet not sufficient to cover
the people's need or meet their dire
need for food we the undersigned we call
the United Nations and the Palestinian
Authority to declare Gaza Strip as a
famine and pollution striken
Zone as populate
pollution and diseases are on the
outbreak this declaration must be
adopted by the Palestinian author as
well as the United Nations together with
the local Regional and Global
community and an emergency plan put in
place to address these issues to allow
the unconditional delivery of relief Aid
into Gaza Strip and above all bring all
those responsible for the commission of
war crimes and crimes against humanity
be brought to just we call on all human
right activists and all those in support
to sign this petition in order to be
presented to both the Palestinian
Authority and the United Nations until
Gaza Strip is fully
declared a famine strien Zone Long Live
Gaza thank
you just a note for you we have
collected hundreds of signatures and we
hope that this number will reach
thousands if not
million together with the following
functions and activities to be organized
over the coming days until we reach our
goal I give the floor to Dr hel Al the
member of the human rights camp
thank you for uh being here
today and your uh the full coverage by
the mass media this is
expressive
of our consciousness of the Grave danger
hovering above
above Gaza gazans and the entire region
it also reflects the significance of the
message the appeal launched today from
here to urging the International
Community particularly the United
Nations to immediately act and declare
Gaza as a famine strien Zone in order to
help whatever or and whoever left from
among those in Gaza and instead of
bringing the Israelis War crime
genocidal War into to an end the
Israelis continue to defy the
international criminal court the
international court of justice and the
entire Global
Community
continuing with their
genocide
War the most heinous of which was
witnessed the day before when civilian
population
tents were
bombed by the United States
made missiles where we reiterate that
the United States is an accomplice in
this crime as they continue to support
Israel and provide them with weapons and
arms and above
all total political and diplomatic cover
let alone the military and financial
support for the Israelis to continue to
perpetrate killing and destruction among
our people in Gaza the international
humanitarian law stipulates and provides
for protection to civilian populations
under
occupation
and population civilian population at
the times of war the human rights
Charters all of which without
exception
Safeguard human's Right to Life Health
Care and
food including portable water
the international Declaration of Human
Rights was clear in its
wording including its 30
articles the
international Charter of political
rights social
rights all the world pieces of
legislature provide for the
same it is very not ible
that well you've been listening there to
a press conference in ramala in the
occupied West Bank where Palestinian
ngos and professional unions have been
briefing on the catastrophic situation
in Gaza they've played testimony from
Central Gaza describing the lack of
supplies and dire situation on the
ground there now these groups are
emphasizing the extent of the famine
there the destruction of infrastructure
and Facilities the lack of fuel
deteriorating hygiene conditions as well
as the spread of disease as the weather
in Gaza is warming they've also laid out
breaches of international law taking
place and they are launching an appeal
for more action from both the
Palestinian Authority and the United
Nations including declaring widespread
famine make sure to subscribe to our
Channel get the latest news from Al
jazer